README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://i.imgur.com/3C8EKbF.png" alt="Golf Shot Distances Logo" width="200"/>
</p>

# Golf Shot Distances

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/6e5166de-72ae-4ef3-9810-be1900038089/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/projects/golf-shot-distances/deploys)

A React-based web application that displays and manages golf club shot distances. The app connects to a Google Sheets backend to store and retrieve club data, making it easy to track your golf performance across different clubs.

## Table of Contents
- [Golf Shot Distances](#golf-shot-distances)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Quick Start](#quick-start)
    - [Development Mode](#development-mode)
    - [Production Mode](#production-mode)
  - [Complete Setup Guide](#complete-setup-guide)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Step 1: Clone the Repository](#step-1-clone-the-repository)
    - [Step 2: Set Up Google Sheets](#step-2-set-up-google-sheets)
    - [Step 3: Configure Google Cloud API](#step-3-configure-google-cloud-api)
    - [Step 4: Set Up Environment Variables](#step-4-set-up-environment-variables)
    - [Step 5: Test Your Setup](#step-5-test-your-setup)
    - [Step 6: Deploy to GitHub](#step-6-deploy-to-github)
    - [Step 7: Deploy to Netlify](#step-7-deploy-to-netlify)
    - [Step 8: Customize Your App](#step-8-customize-your-app)
  - [Project Structure](#project-structure)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
    - [Common Issues](#common-issues)
    - [Getting Help](#getting-help)
    - [Security Notes](#security-notes)

## Quick Start

### Development Mode

To run the application in development mode:

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

The app will be available at `http://localhost:5173` (or the port shown in your terminal).

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Production Mode

To build and preview the production version:

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build the application
npm run build

# Preview the production build
npm run preview
```

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

## Complete Setup Guide

This guide will walk you through setting up your own Golf Shot Distances website from scratch.

### Prerequisites

Before starting, make sure you have:
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (version 18 or higher)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) installed
- A [GitHub](https://github.com/) account
- A [Netlify](https://netlify.com/) account
- A [Google Cloud](https://console.cloud.google.com/) account
- A modern web browser (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Edge)

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 1: Clone the Repository

1. **Fork the repository** (if it's public) or create a new repository on GitHub
2. **Clone the repository** to your local machine:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/golf-shot-distances.git
   cd golf-shot-distances
   ```
3. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
4. **Verify installation**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   - You should see a development server starting
   - The app will open in your browser (though it won't have data yet)

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 2: Set Up Google Sheets

1. **Create a new Google Sheet**:
   - Go to [Google Sheets](https://sheets.google.com/)
   - Create a new spreadsheet
   - Name it something like "Golf Shot Distances"

2. **Set up the data structure**:
   - In the first row, add these headers:
     ```
     Club | Average Flat Carry (Yards) | Average Roll (Yards) | Overhit Risk (Yards) | Average Total Distance Hit (Yards) | Notes
     ```
   - Add your club data. Here's an example structure:
     ```
     Driver | 250 | 20 | 15 | 270 | My driver with good contact
     3 Wood | 220 | 15 | 10 | 235 | Fairway wood for long approaches
     5 Iron | 180 | 10 | 8 | 190 | Mid-iron for approach shots
     7 Iron | 150 | 8 | 6 | 158 | Short iron for approach shots
     Putter | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | For putting only
     ```
   - **Note**: You can use data from a TopTracer driving range or any other golf tracking system
   - **Tip**: Make sure all numeric values are actually numbers, not text

3. **Get the Spreadsheet ID**:
   - Look at the URL of your Google Sheet
   - The ID is the long string between `/d/` and `/edit`
   - Example: `https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ABC123DEF456GHI789/edit#gid=0`
   - The ID would be: `1ABC123DEF456GHI789`
   - **Save this ID** - you'll need it later

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 3: Configure Google Cloud API

1. **Create a Google Cloud Project**:
   - Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
   - Click "Select a project" → "New Project"
   - Name your project (e.g., "Golf Shot Distances")
   - Click "Create"
   - **Note**: Make sure to select the new project after creation

2. **Enable Google Sheets API**:
   - In your project, go to "APIs & Services" → "Library"
   - Search for "Google Sheets API"
   - Click on it and press "Enable"
   - Wait for the API to be enabled (you'll see a green checkmark)

3. **Create a Service Account**:
   - Go to "APIs & Services" → "Credentials"
   - Click "Create Credentials" → "Service Account"
   - Fill in the details:
     - Name: "Golf Shot Distances Service Account"
     - Description: "Service account for golf shot distances app"
   - Click "Create and Continue"
   - Skip the optional steps and click "Done"

4. **Generate Service Account Key**:
   - Click on your newly created service account
   - Go to the "Keys" tab
   - Click "Add Key" → "Create new key"
   - Choose "JSON" format
   - Click "Create"
   - The JSON file will download automatically
   - **Important**: Keep this file secure and don't share it

5. **Share the Google Sheet**:
   - Open your Google Sheet
   - Click "Share" (top right)
   - Add the service account email (found in the JSON file under `client_email`)
   - Give it "Editor" permissions
   - Click "Send"
   - **Verify**: The service account email should appear in the sharing list

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 4: Set Up Environment Variables

1. **For Local Development**:
   - Create a `.env` file in the root directory:
     ```env
     VITE_GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY={"type":"service_account","project_id":"your-project-id",...}
     VITE_GOOGLE_SPREADSHEET_ID=your-spreadsheet-id-here
     ```
   - Replace the values with your actual data:
     - Copy the entire content of your downloaded JSON file for `VITE_GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY`
     - Use your spreadsheet ID for `VITE_GOOGLE_SPREADSHEET_ID`
   - **Important**: Make sure there are no extra spaces or line breaks in the JSON

2. **For Netlify Deployment** (we'll set this up later):
   - You'll add these same variables in the Netlify dashboard

3. **Add .env to .gitignore** (if not already there):
   - Check that `.env` is listed in your `.gitignore` file
   - This prevents your sensitive data from being committed to Git

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 5: Test Your Setup

1. **Test Local Development**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   - Open your browser to the development server
   - Check the browser console for any errors
   - The app should load and display your golf club data

2. **Test Data Loading**:
   - If data doesn't load, check:
     - Browser console for errors
     - That your `.env` file is in the root directory
     - That the service account has access to the spreadsheet
     - That the spreadsheet ID is correct

3. **Test Data Updates** (if the app supports editing):
   - Try updating a club's distance
   - Check that the changes appear in your Google Sheet

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 6: Deploy to GitHub

1. **Initialize Git** (if not already done):
   ```bash
   git init
   git add .
   git commit -m "Initial commit"
   ```

2. **Create a new repository on GitHub**:
   - Go to [GitHub](https://github.com/)
   - Click "New repository"
   - Name it "golf-shot-distances"
   - Make it public or private (your choice)
   - Don't initialize with README (since you already have one)
   - Click "Create repository"

3. **Push to GitHub**:
   ```bash
   git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/golf-shot-distances.git
   git branch -M main
   git push -u origin main
   ```

4. **Verify the push**:
   - Go to your GitHub repository
   - You should see all your files there
   - **Important**: Make sure `.env` is NOT in the repository (it should be ignored)

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 7: Deploy to Netlify

1. **Connect to Netlify**:
   - Go to [Netlify](https://netlify.com/)
   - Sign in with your GitHub account
   - Click "New site from Git"
   - Choose "GitHub" and select your repository

2. **Configure Build Settings**:
   - Build command: `npm run build`
   - Publish directory: `dist`
   - Click "Deploy site"

3. **Set Environment Variables**:
   - In your Netlify dashboard, go to "Site settings" → "Environment variables"
   - Add the following variables:
     ```
     GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY = {"type":"service_account","project_id":"your-project-id",...}
     GOOGLE_SPREADSHEET_ID = your-spreadsheet-id-here
     ```
   - Use the same values from your local `.env` file
   - **Important**: Make sure to use the exact same format as your local `.env` file

4. **Redeploy**:
   - Go to "Deploys" tab
   - Click "Trigger deploy" → "Deploy site"
   - Wait for the deployment to complete

5. **Test the Live Site**:
   - Visit your Netlify URL
   - Test that the data loads correctly
   - Check for any console errors

Your site should now be live at `https://your-site-name.netlify.app`!

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 8: Customize Your App

1. **Update the Title and Description**:
   - Edit `index.html` to change the page title
   - Update the README with your own information

2. **Customize the Styling**:
   - Modify `src/index.css` for global styles
   - Update `src/App.css` for component-specific styles
   - The app uses Tailwind CSS, so you can add Tailwind classes

3. **Add More Features**:
   - Consider adding more golf clubs
   - Add different shot types (draw, fade, etc.)
   - Include weather conditions
   - Add a scoring system

4. **Set Up Custom Domain** (Optional):
   - In Netlify, go to "Domain settings"
   - Add your custom domain
   - Follow the DNS configuration instructions

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

## Project Structure

```
golf-shot-distances/
├── src/                    # React source code
│   ├── components/         # React components
│   ├── App.tsx            # Main application component
│   └── main.tsx           # Application entry point
├── netlify/
│   └── functions/         # Netlify serverless functions
├── public/                # Static assets
├── backend/               # Local development backend
├── package.json           # Dependencies and scripts
├── netlify.toml          # Netlify configuration
├── .env                   # Environment variables (not in Git)
└── .gitignore            # Git ignore rules
```

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **"Cannot read properties of undefined" errors**:
   - Check that your environment variables are set correctly
   - Verify the Google Sheets API is enabled
   - Ensure the service account has access to the spreadsheet
   - Check that the JSON key is properly formatted

2. **502 Bad Gateway errors**:
   - Check Netlify function logs in the dashboard
   - Verify environment variables are set in Netlify
   - Make sure the service account JSON is properly formatted
   - Check that the Google Sheets API is enabled

3. **Data not loading**:
   - Check the browser console for errors
   - Verify the spreadsheet ID is correct
   - Ensure the spreadsheet has the correct column headers
   - Check that the service account has editor permissions

4. **Build failures**:
   - Make sure all dependencies are installed: `npm install`
   - Check for TypeScript errors: `npm run lint`
   - Verify Node.js version is 18 or higher

5. **Environment variable issues**:
   - Make sure `.env` file is in the root directory
   - Check that variable names start with `VITE_` for local development
   - Verify JSON is properly escaped in environment variables

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Getting Help

- Check the browser console for JavaScript errors
- Review Netlify function logs in your dashboard
- Verify all environment variables are correctly set
- Test the Google Sheets API access manually
- Check the Google Cloud Console for API usage and errors
- Review the Netlify deployment logs for build issues

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Security Notes

- Never commit your service account key to version control
- Use environment variables for all sensitive data
- Regularly rotate your service account keys
- Monitor API usage to avoid unexpected charges
- Keep your Google Cloud project secure
- Consider setting up API quotas to prevent abuse

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

---

**Happy golfing! 🏌️‍♂️**

Commit message:

Enhance PWA support and error handling
- Updated `index.html` to include PWA meta tags and icons for better mobile experience.
- Added `vite-plugin-pwa` to `package.json` and `package-lock.json` for PWA functionality.
- Configured Vite to register a service worker and manage caching.
- Introduced error handling in `App.tsx` for API requests, displaying user-friendly messages for network issues.
- Updated README to include instructions for PWA setup and icons.

This commit improves the overall user experience by enabling PWA features and enhancing error visibility during API interactions.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://i.imgur.com/3C8EKbF.png" alt="Golf Shot Distances Logo" width="200"/>
</p>

# Golf Shot Distances

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/6e5166de-72ae-4ef3-9810-be1900038089/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/projects/golf-shot-distances/deploys)

A React-based web application that displays and manages golf club shot distances. The app connects to a Google Sheets backend to store and retrieve club data, making it easy to track your golf performance across different clubs.

## Table of Contents
- [Golf Shot Distances](#golf-shot-distances)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Quick Start](#quick-start)
    - [Development Mode](#development-mode)
    - [Production Mode](#production-mode)
  - [Complete Setup Guide](#complete-setup-guide)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Step 1: Clone the Repository](#step-1-clone-the-repository)
    - [Step 2: Set Up Google Sheets](#step-2-set-up-google-sheets)
    - [Step 3: Configure Google Cloud API](#step-3-configure-google-cloud-api)
    - [Step 4: Set Up Environment Variables](#step-4-set-up-environment-variables)
    - [Step 5: Test Your Setup](#step-5-test-your-setup)
    - [Step 6: Deploy to GitHub](#step-6-deploy-to-github)
    - [Step 7: Deploy to Netlify](#step-7-deploy-to-netlify)
    - [Step 8: Customize Your App](#step-8-customize-your-app)
  - [Project Structure](#project-structure)
  - [PWA and Add to Home Screen (iOS)](#pwa-and-add-to-home-screen-ios)
    - [PWA icons](#pwa-icons)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
    - [Common Issues](#common-issues)
    - [Getting Help](#getting-help)
    - [Security Notes](#security-notes)

## Quick Start

### Development Mode

To run the application in development mode:

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

The app will be available at `http://localhost:5173` (or the port shown in your terminal).

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Production Mode

To build and preview the production version:

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build the application
npm run build

# Preview the production build
npm run preview
```

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

## Complete Setup Guide

This guide will walk you through setting up your own Golf Shot Distances website from scratch.

### Prerequisites

Before starting, make sure you have:
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (version 18 or higher)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) installed
- A [GitHub](https://github.com/) account
- A [Netlify](https://netlify.com/) account
- A [Google Cloud](https://console.cloud.google.com/) account
- A modern web browser (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Edge)

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 1: Clone the Repository

1. **Fork the repository** (if it's public) or create a new repository on GitHub
2. **Clone the repository** to your local machine:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/golf-shot-distances.git
   cd golf-shot-distances
   ```
3. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
4. **Verify installation**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   - You should see a development server starting
   - The app will open in your browser (though it won't have data yet)

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 2: Set Up Google Sheets

1. **Create a new Google Sheet**:
   - Go to [Google Sheets](https://sheets.google.com/)
   - Create a new spreadsheet
   - Name it something like "Golf Shot Distances"

2. **Set up the data structure**:
   - In the first row, add these headers:
     ```
     Club | Average Flat Carry (Yards) | Average Roll (Yards) | Overhit Risk (Yards) | Average Total Distance Hit (Yards) | Notes
     ```
   - Add your club data. Here's an example structure:
     ```
     Driver | 250 | 20 | 15 | 270 | My driver with good contact
     3 Wood | 220 | 15 | 10 | 235 | Fairway wood for long approaches
     5 Iron | 180 | 10 | 8 | 190 | Mid-iron for approach shots
     7 Iron | 150 | 8 | 6 | 158 | Short iron for approach shots
     Putter | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | For putting only
     ```
   - **Note**: You can use data from a TopTracer driving range or any other golf tracking system
   - **Tip**: Make sure all numeric values are actually numbers, not text

3. **Get the Spreadsheet ID**:
   - Look at the URL of your Google Sheet
   - The ID is the long string between `/d/` and `/edit`
   - Example: `https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ABC123DEF456GHI789/edit#gid=0`
   - The ID would be: `1ABC123DEF456GHI789`
   - **Save this ID** - you'll need it later

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 3: Configure Google Cloud API

1. **Create a Google Cloud Project**:
   - Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
   - Click "Select a project" → "New Project"
   - Name your project (e.g., "Golf Shot Distances")
   - Click "Create"
   - **Note**: Make sure to select the new project after creation

2. **Enable Google Sheets API**:
   - In your project, go to "APIs & Services" → "Library"
   - Search for "Google Sheets API"
   - Click on it and press "Enable"
   - Wait for the API to be enabled (you'll see a green checkmark)

3. **Create a Service Account**:
   - Go to "APIs & Services" → "Credentials"
   - Click "Create Credentials" → "Service Account"
   - Fill in the details:
     - Name: "Golf Shot Distances Service Account"
     - Description: "Service account for golf shot distances app"
   - Click "Create and Continue"
   - Skip the optional steps and click "Done"

4. **Generate Service Account Key**:
   - Click on your newly created service account
   - Go to the "Keys" tab
   - Click "Add Key" → "Create new key"
   - Choose "JSON" format
   - Click "Create"
   - The JSON file will download automatically
   - **Important**: Keep this file secure and don't share it

5. **Share the Google Sheet**:
   - Open your Google Sheet
   - Click "Share" (top right)
   - Add the service account email (found in the JSON file under `client_email`)
   - Give it "Editor" permissions
   - Click "Send"
   - **Verify**: The service account email should appear in the sharing list

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 4: Set Up Environment Variables

1. **For Local Development**:
   - Create a `.env` file in the root directory:
     ```env
     VITE_GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY={"type":"service_account","project_id":"your-project-id",...}
     VITE_GOOGLE_SPREADSHEET_ID=your-spreadsheet-id-here
     ```
   - Replace the values with your actual data:
     - Copy the entire content of your downloaded JSON file for `VITE_GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY`
     - Use your spreadsheet ID for `VITE_GOOGLE_SPREADSHEET_ID`
   - **Important**: Make sure there are no extra spaces or line breaks in the JSON

2. **For Netlify Deployment** (we'll set this up later):
   - You'll add these same variables in the Netlify dashboard

3. **Add .env to .gitignore** (if not already there):
   - Check that `.env` is listed in your `.gitignore` file
   - This prevents your sensitive data from being committed to Git

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 5: Test Your Setup

1. **Test Local Development**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   - Open your browser to the development server
   - Check the browser console for any errors
   - The app should load and display your golf club data

2. **Test Data Loading**:
   - If data doesn't load, check:
     - Browser console for errors
     - That your `.env` file is in the root directory
     - That the service account has access to the spreadsheet
     - That the spreadsheet ID is correct

3. **Test Data Updates** (if the app supports editing):
   - Try updating a club's distance
   - Check that the changes appear in your Google Sheet

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 6: Deploy to GitHub

1. **Initialize Git** (if not already done):
   ```bash
   git init
   git add .
   git commit -m "Initial commit"
   ```

2. **Create a new repository on GitHub**:
   - Go to [GitHub](https://github.com/)
   - Click "New repository"
   - Name it "golf-shot-distances"
   - Make it public or private (your choice)
   - Don't initialize with README (since you already have one)
   - Click "Create repository"

3. **Push to GitHub**:
   ```bash
   git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/golf-shot-distances.git
   git branch -M main
   git push -u origin main
   ```

4. **Verify the push**:
   - Go to your GitHub repository
   - You should see all your files there
   - **Important**: Make sure `.env` is NOT in the repository (it should be ignored)

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 7: Deploy to Netlify

1. **Connect to Netlify**:
   - Go to [Netlify](https://netlify.com/)
   - Sign in with your GitHub account
   - Click "New site from Git"
   - Choose "GitHub" and select your repository

2. **Configure Build Settings**:
   - Build command: `npm run build`
   - Publish directory: `dist`
   - Click "Deploy site"

3. **Set Environment Variables**:
   - In your Netlify dashboard, go to "Site settings" → "Environment variables"
   - Add the following variables:
     ```
     GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY = {"type":"service_account","project_id":"your-project-id",...}
     GOOGLE_SPREADSHEET_ID = your-spreadsheet-id-here
     ```
   - Use the same values from your local `.env` file
   - **Important**: Make sure to use the exact same format as your local `.env` file

4. **Redeploy**:
   - Go to "Deploys" tab
   - Click "Trigger deploy" → "Deploy site"
   - Wait for the deployment to complete

5. **Test the Live Site**:
   - Visit your Netlify URL
   - Test that the data loads correctly
   - Check for any console errors

Your site should now be live at `https://your-site-name.netlify.app`!

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Step 8: Customize Your App

1. **Update the Title and Description**:
   - Edit `index.html` to change the page title
   - Update the README with your own information

2. **Customize the Styling**:
   - Modify `src/index.css` for global styles
   - Update `src/App.css` for component-specific styles
   - The app uses Tailwind CSS, so you can add Tailwind classes

3. **Add More Features**:
   - Consider adding more golf clubs
   - Add different shot types (draw, fade, etc.)
   - Include weather conditions
   - Add a scoring system

4. **Set Up Custom Domain** (Optional):
   - In Netlify, go to "Domain settings"
   - Add your custom domain
   - Follow the DNS configuration instructions

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

## Project Structure

```
golf-shot-distances/
├── src/                    # React source code
│   ├── components/         # React components
│   ├── App.tsx            # Main application component
│   └── main.tsx           # Application entry point
├── netlify/
│   └── functions/         # Netlify serverless functions
├── public/                # Static assets
├── backend/               # Local development backend
├── package.json           # Dependencies and scripts
├── netlify.toml          # Netlify configuration
├── .env                   # Environment variables (not in Git)
└── .gitignore            # Git ignore rules
```

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

## PWA and Add to Home Screen (iOS)

The site is configured as a PWA and can be added to the iOS home screen. The manifest and service worker are generated at build time. For a proper home screen icon and install experience, add the following icon files to the `public/` folder:

### PWA icons

| File | Size | Purpose |
|------|------|---------|
| `pwa-192x192.png` | 192×192 px | Web app manifest |
| `pwa-512x512.png` | 512×512 px | Web app manifest |
| `apple-touch-icon.png` | 180×180 px | iOS home screen icon |

Generate these from a single high-resolution PNG or SVG using [PWA Assets Generator](https://vite-pwa-org.netlify.app/assets-generator/) or [PWA Builder Image Generator](https://www.pwabuilder.com/imageGenerator), then place the files in `public/`. Until these exist, the app still builds; the home screen may show a default icon.

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **"Cannot read properties of undefined" errors**:
   - Check that your environment variables are set correctly
   - Verify the Google Sheets API is enabled
   - Ensure the service account has access to the spreadsheet
   - Check that the JSON key is properly formatted

2. **502 Bad Gateway errors**:
   - Check Netlify function logs in the dashboard
   - Verify environment variables are set in Netlify
   - Make sure the service account JSON is properly formatted
   - Check that the Google Sheets API is enabled

3. **Data not loading**:
   - Check the browser console for errors
   - Verify the spreadsheet ID is correct
   - Ensure the spreadsheet has the correct column headers
   - Check that the service account has editor permissions

4. **Build failures**:
   - Make sure all dependencies are installed: `npm install`
   - Check for TypeScript errors: `npm run lint`
   - Verify Node.js version is 18 or higher

5. **Environment variable issues**:
   - Make sure `.env` file is in the root directory
   - Check that variable names start with `VITE_` for local development
   - Verify JSON is properly escaped in environment variables

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Getting Help

- Check the browser console for JavaScript errors
- Review Netlify function logs in your dashboard
- Verify all environment variables are correctly set
- Test the Google Sheets API access manually
- Check the Google Cloud Console for API usage and errors
- Review the Netlify deployment logs for build issues

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

### Security Notes

- Never commit your service account key to version control
- Use environment variables for all sensitive data
- Regularly rotate your service account keys
- Monitor API usage to avoid unexpected charges
- Keep your Google Cloud project secure
- Consider setting up API quotas to prevent abuse

> [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

---

**Happy golfing! 🏌️‍♂️**
